---
title: Airplay Speakers
date: 2013-06-18
updated: 2013-08-19
tags: nerdery apple
layout: post
---
A really awesome little thing this - redirect a Mac's audio output to an Airplay device on the network.

I have two machines in the house running XBMC, both hooked up to decent speakers. One's an original AppleTV (luna) sitting on a pair of Wharfedale speakers, the other is an AMD E-450 (void) based system strapped to a set of Logitech Z550s. Both are running XBMC. void has three TV tuners, and luna is mostly used for music and watching the news in the morning.

Originally I used to play music either using BubbleUPnP on my android phone, or using the remote. Both were a bit shoddy. Then I got an iPad and found that XBMC's implementation of Airplay was more than up to scratch.

Fast forward to today, where I was googling to find a decent solution to play music from my MacBook to the systems. It's as simple as alt-click on the volume icon, and you should see the Airplay devices on your network. Another route is System Preferences->Sound. 

Switch the output, <code>pkill mpd</code> to make mpd notice the speaker change, and suddenly, music. Same goes for streaming a TED talk from the iPad to the big TV hosted by void.

It really is distressingly good. It makes me understand Apple's antisocial approach to standards like UPnP. Why bother with design by committee when you have enough market share to do your own thing well enough for all of your customers, and a number of motivated hackers?