---
layout: post
title: Transfer, silence and MGP
tags: phd
date: 2013-09-15
---

## The Silence
Busy busy busy. It seemed to sneak up on me - one moment I was slacking off, taking advantage of the relaxed lifestyle a DPhil makes possible (I don't claim this was a good idea), the next thing I knew it was late nights, too much coffee and ever expanding LOC.  But we got there in the end - a last minute meeting where Steve asked some tough question was the impetus required to go from a so-so effort for the transfer to something that both Steve and Mike seem quite happy with.


## The Scheme
[Here's](/files/lit_review.pdf) a link to my literature review and plan for the rest of DPhil. It's completely based in reality and not fabricated in any way what-soever yes siree.

What, you don't believe me?

## The Sauce

When writing this paper, reading other papers and watching Gunther trying to get some piece of code working, I'm struck by a few things. Too many papers are published incomplete, by which I mean without full sources, data and instructions on how to reproduce every figure and chart in the paper. It is hard to reproduce even my own work after I've been away from it for a while. Finally, we're getting very good at data selection.

I did a TeaTalk on this yesterday, and there was good discussion afterwards. Frank raised something which I hadn't covered in the talk, which was that we should be testing our algorithms on a standardised set of data. There is a service where you can upload your algorithm and run it against a bunch of datasets - [MLComp](http://mlcomp.org). This seems like a great idea, but will cause the rate of depression amongst ML researchers to skyrocket as we realise our fancy infinite dirichlet chinese markov restaurant process models are no better than a linear regressor for most datasets. 

It reminds me of an analysis I read of doping in most sports - if doping were actually eradicated, no world record would ever be broken again. Everything would be less exciting and no-one would watch sports on TV, leading to the destruction of all we know and love.

## MGP Progress
Progressing. Getting the code together for learning using the MGP to inflate the posterior. We have yet to manage to dervice the expression for the full posterior, however inflating the diagonal like McHutchon and Rasmussen should work. On track to have that working for a meeting with Mike on tuesday.
